Mangaluru: The NHAI has developed the Talapady-Chengala National Highway into a six-lane stretch with service roads. With NHAI proposing an additional tollgate at Arikkady, in Kasaragod district of Kerala, commuters on the Mangaluru-Kasaragod route on NH-66 may have to pay toll at two locations within a 22 km stretch.

Currently, vehicles on the Mangaluru-Kasaragod route pay toll only at Talapady. Since June 2024, the toll for cars, jeeps, vans, or any other light motor vehicles (LMV) at the Talapady toll gate on NH-66 is Rs 55 (one way) and Rs 80 (same day return). The toll charge for buses and trucks at the Talapady tollgate is Rs 165 (one way) and Rs 250 (same day return).

An action committee comprising activists from political and other organisations has been fighting against the NHAI's decision to commence toll collection at Arikkady. Meanwhile, a petition filed by the action committee is also pending in the Kerala high court.

The action committee involving chairman Ashraf Karla and convener AKM Ashraf, who is the MLA of Manjeshwar in Kasaragod, has moved a petition against the tollgate at Arikkady in the Kerala high court. Advocate Sajal Ibrahim, who moved a petition on behalf of the action committee, said that since the court is on vacation, any decision is likely to come only after Jan 5. "The court is yet to complete the hearing process, so as to clear some more doubts. Currently, the NHAI cannot commence toll collection at Arikkady, as they have no permission to do so," he said.

MLA Ashraf said that through public protests and legal means, the action committee will continue to resist the move to have two tollgates within 22 km of each other. "It is a major national highway stretch as a large number of patients visit Mangaluru regularly. Hence, we have decided to continue the fight strongly against the move of opening a second tollgate within 22 km," he said.

Meanwhile, the road transportation corporations of Karnataka and Kerala have been awaiting NHAI's circular to see whether the bus fare on the Mangaluru-Kasaragod route needs to be increased. Senior divisional controller of KSRTC Mangaluru division, Rajesh Shetty, said that the division has been operating 26 buses providing more than 120 trips per day on the Mangaluru-Kasaragod route. "We will have to wait and see how they are fixing the toll fare," he said.